## W3 Schools

* You can check the version of python in your machine by the following code in the command prompt
```
C:\Users\Your Name>python --version
```

* We can cast and find the data type of any given variable with functions as type(). To cast we have to mention the data type that we want to cast it to such as str(), int()

### Python Variables

A variable can have a short name (like x and y) or a more descriptive name (age, carname, total_volume).

Rules for Python variables:

* A variable name must start with a letter or the underscore character
* A variable name cannot start with a number
* A variable name can only contain alpha-numeric characters and underscores (A-z, 0-9, and _ )
* Variable names are case-sensitive (age, Age and AGE are three different variables)
* A variable name cannot be any of the Python keywords.

Camel Case
Each word, except the first, starts with a capital letter:
```
myVariableName = "John"
```

Pascal Case
Each word starts with a capital letter:
```
MyVariableName = "John"
```

Snake Case
Each word is separated by an underscore character:
```
my_variable_name = "John"
```

Many Values to Multiple Variables
Python allows you to assign values to multiple variables in one line:

```
x, y, z = "Orange", "Banana", "Cherry"
print(x)
print(y)
print(z)
```

output
```
Orange
Banana
Cherry
```

One Value to Multiple Variables
And you can assign the same value to multiple variables in one line:

```
x = y = z = "Orange"
print(x)
print(y)
print(z)
```

Unpack a Collection
If you have a collection of values in a list, tuple etc. Python allows you to extract the values into variables. This is called unpacking.

```
fruits = ["apple", "banana", "cherry"]
x, y, z = fruits
print(x)
print(y)
print(z)
```

#### Output Variables

In the print() function, you output multiple variables, separated by a comma:

```
x = "Python"
y = "is"
z = "awesome"
print(x, y, z)
```

output - ```Python is awesome```

You can also use the + operator to output multiple variables:

```
x = "Python "
y = "is "
z = "awesome"
print(x + y + z)
```

This will give the same output as above

For numbers, the + character works as a mathematical operator:
In the print() function, when you try to combine a string and a number with the + operator, Python will give you an error:


Global Variables

* Variables that are created outside of a function (as in all of the examples in the previous pages) are known as global variables.

* Global variables can be used by everyone, both inside of functions and outside.

* If you create a variable with the same name inside a function, this variable will be local, and can only be used inside the function. The global variable with the same name will remain as it was, global and with the original value.

The global Keyword

* Normally, when you create a variable inside a function, that variable is local, and can only be used inside that function.

* To create a global variable inside a function, you can use the global keyword.

```
def myfunc():
  global x
  x = "fantastic"

myfunc()

print("Python is " + x)
```

With this we could use the function x as a global function

Also, use the global keyword if you want to change a global variable inside a function.

```
x = "awesome"

def myfunc():
  global x
  x = "fantastic"

myfunc()

print("Python is " + x)
```
